1. A book shop maintains the inventory of books that are being sold at the shop. The list includes details such as author, title, price, publisher and stock position. Whenever a customer wants a book, the sales person inputs the title and author and the system searches the list and displays whether it is available or not. If it is not, an appropriate message is displayed. If it is, then the system displays the book details and requests for the number of copies required. If the requested copies book details and requests for the number of copies required. If the requested copies are available, the total cost of the requested copies is displayed; otherwise the message “Required copies not in stock” is displayed.
Design a system using a class called books with suitable member functions and Constructors. Use new operator in constructors to allocate memory space required. Implement C++ program for the system.



2. Design a C++ Class ‘Complex ‘ with data members for real and imaginary part. Provide default and parameterized constructors. Write a program to perform arithmetic operations of two complex numbers using operator overloading (using either member functions or friend functions). 

3. Create a C++ class named Television that has data members to hold the model number and the screen size in inches, and the price. Member functions include overloaded insertion and extraction operators. If more than four digits are entered for the model, if the screen size is smaller than 12 or greater than 70 inches, or if the price is negative or over $5000 then throw an integer. Write a main() function that instantiates a television object, allows user to enter data and displays the data members .If an exception is caught, replace all the data member values with zero values

4. Implement C++/Java/Python program to implement a base class consisting of the data members such as name of the student, roll number and subject. The derived class consists of the data members subject code ,internal assessment and university examination marks. The program should have the facilities. i) Build a master table ii) List a table iii) Insert a new entry iv) Delete old entry v) Edit an entry vi) Search for a record. Use virtual functions. 